Khulna University of Engineering & Technology (KUET) 
Prelude
 Khulna University of Engineering & Technology (KUET) is one of the technological universities in Bangladesh. It was established as Khulna Engineering College in 1974, it was later converted to a degree awarding autonomous institution called Bangladesh Institute of Technology (BIT), Khulna in 1986. With a view to providing more opportunity and autonomy for the improvement in the quality of higher education and research in engineering and technology, the Institute was upgraded and renamed as Khulna University of Engineering & Technology (KUET) in 2003. Its campus extends over an area of 101 acres. Tastefully laid out with beautiful plantation and with buildings of various nature and stature, clean and wide roads, the campus presents a spectacle of harmony in architecture and natural beauty. KUET combines traditional focus on excellent teaching and research with a desire to seek new ways of developing standardized education and intellectuals. Its mission is to flourish application of engineering knowledge through teaching, research and artistry. Its vision is to be perceived and acknowledged as the outstanding public university to the nation. KUET strives to be a community of scholars and a center for learning and developing knowledge-based capabilities which will promote academic achievements and research excellence. With such mission and vision, it is advancing to be a leading engineering university that educates students to identify and develop their individual talents for successful lives. 

Location and its Surroundings
 The campus is located at Fulbarigate, about 13 km north from the Khulna City near the Khulna-Dhaka highway. Govt. B. L. College is located 4 km away from this campus to the southern side of it. Teacher's Training College, Technical Training Center etc. are located at the western side and the Jahanabad Cantonment is located at the northern side of KUET campus. The Khulna-Dhaka highway is passing through the eastern side of the campus.


Faculties and Teaching Departments 
Currently the University has twenty (20) teaching departments under three faculties. All departments, with the exception of the department of Humanities, offer degree programs. However, some of them offer Postgraduate (PG) degrees only and other offers both Undergraduate (UG) as well as PG degrees. Faculty wise list of the departments with the status of the degree offered is given below

Faculty of Civil Engineering 
Dept. of Civil Engineering                                                                                                          Both UG and PG Dept. of Urban and Regional Planning                                                                                    Both UG and PG Dept. of Building Engineering and Construction Management                                          UG only 
Dept. of Architecture                                                                                                                  UG only 
Dept. of Physics                                                                                                                                          PG only Dept. of Chemistry                                                                                                                                     PG only Dept. of Mathematics                                                                                                                               PG only Dept. of Humanities                                                                                                                                   ---

Faculty of Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
Dept. of Electrical and Electronic Engineering                                                                          Both UG and PG Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering                                                                             Both UG and PG Dept. of Electronics and Communication Engineering                                                             Both UG and PG Dept. of Biomedical Engineering                                                                                                  Both UG and PG Dept. of Materials Science and Engineering                                                                               UG only

Faculty of Mechanical Engineering 
Dept. of Mechanical Engineering                                                               Both UG and PG 
Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Management                                  Both UG and PG 
Dept. of Energy Science and Engineering                                                  Both UG and PG 
Dept. of Leather Engineering                                                                       Both UG and PG 
Dept. of Textile Engineering                                                                         UG only 
Dept. of Chemical Engineering                                                                     UG only 
Dept. of Mechatronics Engineering                                                             UG only

Academic Program 
Undergraduate Program          Four (04) years Bachelor of Science in Engineering degree 
Postgraduate Program              Master of Science in Engineering (M. Sc. Eng.) or Master of Philosophy (M.                           Phil) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph. D.) 
The postgraduate courses are designed to meet the growing needs of engineering professions as well as further development of different specialized subjects of the abovementioned areas.

Language of Instruction 
Official language of instruction and examination is English. However, teachers may use native language. Bengali occasionally if no international students are present in the class.

Academic Facilities 
To support the excellent and high quality academic environment, KUET maintains a number of academic units

Central Computer Center 
The Central Computer Center (CCC) has served over the years as the hub for computer related services in the campus. With the commissioning of the University-wide network, the CCC is in a unique position in providing computing and network facilities to the campus to serve the University. Now it has strong IT infrastructure with sufficient bandwidth, a router for routing, a firewall for Internet security, nine high configuration servers as Mail server, Proxy server, Database server, DNS server, Web server, seven midlevel configuration of workstations for other servers and backup server, a core switch, several manageable and unmanageable switches for intranet connectivity. At present there are about 600 network nodes through LAN connection. Internet service is also available to specific users through Wi-Fi. CCC maintains campus wide optical fiber backbone network which provides connectivity to all Faculties, Institutes, Departments, Centers, and Main Administrative Building, Web-based Email that enables all the faculty members and officers to access their mailbox from anywhere via the Internet. The CCC provides services daily from 9:00 am to 9:00 pm except weekends (Fridays & Saturdays) and holidays, though some services are available until late hours.

Library Facility 
The library subscribes huge journals and materials. KUET operates two types of library system, General Library and Reference Library. The General Library provides in house reading and short duration borrowing opportunity of book and other reference material to the students and faculties. The Reference Library provides the in place reading. All students and faculties can enjoy these facilities for more than 10 hours in every working day. Audio-visual systems are available for studying audio and video documents. Right now the General Library System has more than 53,342 books and 3,126 Journals and periodicals in its collection. The library operations are full automated by KOHA integrated library system. Moreover, Central Library enriches every year by collecting recent books and journals. Besides the general library system, each academic department maintains rent-based library from which students can borrow textbooks at a nominal rate for one semester. There is a digital library access center at the library to access e-journals and materials with modern computers, servers and switches.

Campus Life 
The university has 101 acres large campus with nice green landscape blended with beautiful architectural constructions. The Khulna City is the third largest metropolitan city of Bangladesh having population around 1.5 million. The city is surrounded by nice countryside and the river Rupsha. Newly constructed Khan Jahan Ali bridge connected the city with Mongla port and south-west region of Bangladesh. Sundarbans, the world's largest mangrove forest, is prevailing near the city. The city has also housed with some of the major industries of Bangladesh.
Climate 
Being a part of tropical climate region, Bangladesh has warm and humid weather. The three main seasons prevailing in this country are winter (November-February), summer (March-June) and rainy (July-October). However, there are three more seasons available in between these seasons namely spring, autumn and late autumn, but their effects are not predominant. The warmest days in Khulna region are between April and June with temperature ranging from 30°C to 37°C. Winter temperatures usually vary between 8°C to 20°c. Humidity is high (70-90%) in summer and rainy seasons but moderate in winter (50-70%).

Accommodation 
Six nice residential halls can accommodate more than 2000 male students and one female hall can accommodate 400 female students in the campus. Four students have to share a large room and common rest room in the residential halls. Each residential hall is equipped with modern recreational facilities like Cable TV connection, common room, reading room, library and a well-equipped guestroom. Social, cultural and other co-curriculum activities are scheduled throughout the semester/term to offer breaks in tedious study routine. One Provost and one/more Assistant Provost are appointed from the faculty members to look after the administration of each hall.

Sports and Entertainment 
Both indoor and outdoor sports facilities are available for refreshment of the students. The physical education section of the university under the control of Director of Students Welfare (DSW) arranges central indoor and outdoor sports competition annually. The university also organizes annual cultural competitions and occasional cultural programs on some special events like celebration of different national days, university foundation day, New Year’s Eve etc. Besides, a number of cultural and social groups like theater group, debating society etc. are also active in the campus. The university team also attends different national level sports and cultural competitions and shows excellent performance.

Transportation 
For the convenience of the students, faculty members, officers and staffs, KUET operates its own Shuttle Bus Service between Khulna city and the campus. In weekends special services are also provided to meet the weekend recreational and other needs.

Student Union 
The Student Union of KUET is a student organization to promote the interests and welfare of the student body. All full-time students are members of the student union who vote for the office bearers of it. The DSW is the President of the Student Union as exofficio appointed by the university authority from the senior faculty members. One more faculty member is appointed by the university authority as the treasurer of the student union. Moreover, a strong student welfare committee is also available for looking after the students’ facilities in some special cases. Sports, cultural and social activities, indoor and outdoor games are organized regularly to keep the students’ campus life pleasing

Medical Center 
The university operates a medical center for meeting the needs of students’ health care and medical facilities. The center is equipped with necessary medical equipment, a modern ambulance and full time experienced medical doctors, nurses and assistance. Mostly medical counseling and in some cases, medicine are supplied to the students free of cost.

Food and Stationeries 
Each residential hall has its own cafeteria, which serves two meals per day. Each hall authority maintains the cafeteria. Students are also involved in their daily menu. Special menus are provided in different occasions in the hall cafeteria. One annual grand dinner is also arranged in each hall in honor of outgoing students. Besides these a large central cafeteria and a fast food shop offers breakfast, meals and snacks etc. Moreover, in Khulna city, there are number of nice restaurants which serve a wide variety of food including oriental and western flavor. Any sorts of alcohol or alcoholic drinks are completely forbidden in the campus. A Departmental Store is also housed in the campus for the benefit of all.

Other Facilities 
In the campus there is a water treatment plant to treat the water. There is also a large Mosque, a bank and a post office in the campus. To provide uninterrupted power supply an electrical substation is located in the campus. There are also Gymnasium and a large well-equipped auditorium.

Admission 
The admission process of Khulna University of Engineering & Technology emphasizes to identify students who will be able to successfully complete the degree requirements of various disciplines of engineering as well as contribute to the social and technoeconomical environment of the nation.

Undergraduate Admission 
Applicants for the undergraduate program must pass the Higher Secondary Certificate (H.S.C.) or equivalent examination from any education board with science and must obtain a required minimum CGPA in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics courses. The candidates who have completed a-level examination can also apply. The applicants have to go through a rigorous entry examination to be qualified for admission. The entry examination named as Admission Test consists of MCQ questions and short questions which covers current syllabus of Higher Secondary level Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and English. The undergraduate admission is conducted once in each academic session.

Postgraduate Programs
 Applicants for the masters programs must have B.Sc. Eng. degree or equivalent in the relevant field from a recognized University/Institute with good academic records. Students who have higher research aptitude are welcome to the program. KUET invites application twice in a year (January Term and July Term). The respective departments arrange an interview at a suitable time to select candidates for this program. The selected candidates have to take admission by depositing prescribed amount of money to the bank. Full-time and part-time students are there in this program. For full time meritorious students financial help can be provided. A part-time student must have consent from his employer to pursue postgraduate studies.

International Applicants 
International applicants for both undergraduate and postgraduate program can apply throughout the year. Application materials and other information are available in the admission office. Inquires can be directed to the Registrar. According to the present policy of KUET, international student does not have to go through the entry examination procedure. However, they should have an excellent high school record or equivalent to be qualified for admission. The admission committee and equivalence committee (if necessary) takes decision about the eligibility of admission of the applicants. KUET always encourage international students to maintain wide cultural and social diversity in its campus. Students from SAARC (India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Maldives) countries can apply through their concern ministries to the Ministry of Education of Bangladesh to avail the special quotas, which are reserved under SAARC countries educational and cultural contract. These positions are limited. However, students from these countries can also apply independently. International applicants are required to submit two copies of official credentials and certificates along with two copies of passport size photographs. The completed application and above-mentioned documents should be reached to the Registrar's office along with $20 application processing fee. For the postgraduate program applicants also have to submit two letters of recommendation. Inquires can be directed to:
Registrar 
Khulna University of Engineering & Technology (KUET) 
Khulna 920300, Bangladesh. 
Tel: +880 41 774403, Fax: +880 41 774403

Administration 
The university Syndicate is the supreme body for policymaking and other operational procedures. The syndicate forms different policy under the recommendation of different committees namely the Academic Council, Planning and Development Committee and the Finance Committee. Nationally and internationally recognized academicians, planners, and economists as well as distinguished faculties from KUET form these committees. The Vice-Chancellor is the administrative and academic head of the university. A non-formal advisory executive committee and advisory committee, formed by the senior faculties of different academic disciplines and hall provosts, helps the Vice-Chancellor in various decisions making. For the proper operation of different administrative services, the office of the Vice-Chancellor maintains various administrative sections namely Academic Section, Engineering Sections (maintenance and repairs), Establishment section, Accounts section, Security section, Procurements Section etc. Registrar is the custodian of records, the properties, the common seal and such other property of the university as the Board may commit to his charges. The Vice Chancellor and the Comptroller control the fund of the university.

Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) 
The department of CSE provides an outstanding opportunity for students to get a quality education in Computer Science and Engineering. It started its academic activities from 26th September 1999 with 60 yearly intake which was increased to 120 from 2016. The department started postgraduate programs (M.Sc. and Ph.D.) in 2009 with 20 yearly intake which was increased to 40 from 2018. From the beginning, the department has been widely recognized for its excellent research and teaching capabilities. Students are enrolled in this department through a highly competitive entrance exam and only top rank students of the country get the change to admit.
The department maintains several functional bodies which are Departmental Monitoring Committee, Academic Committee for Undergraduate Studies, Academic Committee for Postgraduate Studies, Student Adviser and Course Coordinator. All the functional bodies work actively to enhance research and education quality of this department. The graduates from the department are heavily recruited by both academia and industry of home and abroad.
The department provides an outstanding research environment. Research outcomes of this department regularly publish in world-recognized journals/conferences. The major areas of research include Soft Computing, Robotics, Artificial Intelligence, Speech Processing, Natural Language Processing, Image Processing, Embedded Systems, Data Mining, Machine Learning, Computer Networks and Security, Networks, etc. Besides theoretical research, faculty of the department also maintain strong ties with many reputed national and international institutions and are involved in a large number of projects in the forefronts of cutting edge technology.
There are different clubs and groups in CSE department for co-curriculum activities such as Hardware Acceleration Club of KUET, Special Group Interested in Programming Contest, Bit to Byte, etc. Students are actively involved in the clubs and groups to explore their proficiency in different branches of CSE nursing their academic knowledge. The co-curriculum activities are performed based on established rules and regulations of the department. Computer Science and Engineering Association, another student body of the department, is also active in organizing lecture series, practical demos, tournaments and cultural activities.
Besides, the department also provides different Consultation Services which include Requirement Analysis of Software or Hardware, Database Design, Large Scale Network Design, Development of Automation System, etc. Others activities of this department include Cisco Networking Academy Program, Training, Workshop, Seminar, etc.

Vision of the CSE Department KUET
One of the visions of the department is to emphasize on developing analytical ability along with technical skills of the students. The department also thrives constantly for acquisition of knowledge towards development of computer technology and nurture the spirit of innovation in design and development of computer systems with superior performance.

Mission of the CSE Department KUET
As a scholarly community, both teachers and students are continuously engaged in innovative research and development. We have a commitment to be pioneer in research community in the various fields of Computer Science and Engineering. Advanced Computer Architecture, Bioinformatics, Computer Vision and Graphics, Computer Networks, Database and Data Warehouse, Evolutionary Algorithms, Interconnection Networks, Pattern Recognition and Machine Intelligence, Photonic Switching Network, and so on, this will be helpful for all the research community, both national and international arena. We would like to open the new frontiers of Computer Science and Engineering. We always try for the development of a Research Quality Framework (RQF). The aim of the RQF initiative is to develop the basis for an improved assessment of the quality and an effective process to achieve this.
We maintain the highest standard of teaching both for theory and laboratory courses. To develop quality teaching materials, we effectively utilize various educational tools and technologies. We highly encourage the collaboration with other technical institutes and industries for sharing our expertise. We instill students with professional ethics and moral values, critical and independent thinking, sound judgment, prolonged thirst for lifelong learning, and communication ability.

Student Clubs and Groups, CSE KUET 
There are different clubs and groups in CSE department for co-curriculum activities. Students are actively involved in the clubs and groups to explore their proficiency in different branches of CSE nursing their academic knowledge. The co-curriculum activities are performed based on established rules and regulations of the department. Head of the department is the Chief Patron of all the clubs and groups and two/three teachers are involved as moderators in each group.

Special Group Interested in Programming Contest (SGIPC) CSE KUET
SGIPC arranges workshops and contests on a regular basis to develop the skills of the members. Moreover, it offers a platform to the Competitive Programming Community of KUET by training members on algorithms, data structure, mathematics, geometry, probability theory, game theory and different problem-solving paradigms which helps them in their academic and professional life.

Hardware Acceleration Club of KUET (HACK) CSE KUET
The aim of HACK is to develop skills in different aspects related to hardware especially in real-life hardware project development. HACK always encourages its members with essential guidelines to build up their career as an expert hardware engineer. It organizes hands-on workshops on robotics, embedded systems development and many more.

Bit to Byte (B2B) CSE KUET
The central perspective of B2B club is to encourage the members on software development. B2B arranges various sessions where members can learn the different tips and techniques for software development. It also organizes multiple workshops, boot camps and practice sessions related to programming and software development.

Internet of Things Club (IoTC) CSE KUET
IoTC helps its members understanding the underlying concept of the Internet of Things. This club shows how to start with IoT and how to proceed effectively. IoTC not only inspires members but also provides them with necessary suggestions and helps.

Animation and Game Development Club (AGDC) CSE KUET
AGDC assists members to develop a game successfully. It provides a guideline on how to design games and animations, how to make them more attractive and how to advertise for the game. It highly encourages members to build up their career in this challenging industry.

Machine Learning and Computing Intelligence Group (MLCIG) CSE KUET
MLCIG makes its members acquainted with machine learning and computer intelligence to address complex real world problems. It encourages members to build up their career through research and development intelligent systems.

Robotics and Artificial Intelligence Club (RAIC) CSE KUET
RAIC aims to support and foster interest in various aspects related to robotics. The main goal of this club is to understand the basic principles of robotics, its control and participating in the various competitions. RAIC provides necessary information about robotics and guidelines on how to build a robot in real life
Cyber Security Club (CSC) CSE KUET
CSC focuses on developing skills on cyber security. It helps members to understand the underlying security standards and their implementation. It also provides members necessary resources to obtain the technical expertise.

English Speaking and Career Club (ESCC) CSE KUET
A considerable percentage of CSE graduates opt scholarships for higher education and jobs in abroad. With regular seminars and workshops, ESCC ensures that the members never lag with the fast-moving world. The club also provides necessary suggestions and helps for getting good IELTS or GRE score.

Departmental Contact CSE KUET
Tel : +880-41-774318 
PABX : +880-41-769468-75, +880-1711-428800 
Office Secretary : 350 
Fax : +880-41-774318 
E-mail : head@cse.kuet.ac.bd 
Website : www.kuet.ac.bd/cse


Faculty Members (up to December 2022)

                                               Professors

1. Dr. M. M. A. Hashem                    
B.Sc. Engg. (EEE), KUET; M.Sc. Engg. (CSE), AIT; Ph.D. (Artificial Intelligence Systems), Japan. 
Fellow of IEB, Member of IEEE Computer Society, Life Fellow of BAAS. 
Research fields: Artificial/Computational Intelligence, Distributed Evolutionary Computations, Intelligent Computer/Sensor Networking, Grid/Cloud Computing, Security and Trust in Cloud Environment, Biomedical Instrumentations, Intelligent Robotics, Data/Text Mining using Big-Data Analytics. 
PABX Ext: 351 | Mobile: +880-1714-003949
Email: hashem@cse.kuet.ac.bd, mma.hashem@gmail.com 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/hashem


2. Dr. K. M. Azharul Hasan                    
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KU; M.Sc. Engg. (CSIM), AIT; Ph.D., Japan 
Member of IEEE, Fellow of IEB. 
Research fields: Big Data Analytics, High Performance Computing, GPU Computing and Natural Language Processing. 
PABX Ext: 355 | Mobile: +880-1714-087273 
Email: az@cse.kuet.ac.bd, azhasan@gmail.com 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/azhasan

3. Dr. Kazi Md. Rokibul Alam                       
BB.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KU; M.Sc. Engg. (CSE), BUET; Ph.D., Japan 
Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Applied Cryptography, Information Security, Machine Learning and its Applications, Deep Learning 
PABX Ext: 365 | Mobile: +880-1714-087216 
Email: rokibcse@yahoo.com, rokib@cse.kuet.ac.bd 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/rokib

4. Dr. Muhammad Sheikh Sadi                      
B.Sc. Engg. (EEE), KUET; M.Sc. Engg., BUET; Ph.D. (Computer Systems Engineering), Australia 
Member of IEB 
Research fields: Soft Error Tolerance, Error Correction Coding Theory, Hardware Redundancy for Fault Tolerance, Humanitarian Technology, Internet of Things (IoT). 
PABX Ext: 353 | Mobile: +880-1676-077989
Email: sadi@cse.kuet.ac.bd 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/sadi


5. Dr. Md. Aminul Haque Akhand                  
B.Sc. Eng.(EEE), KUET; M. Eng. (AI), Japan; Ph.D. (Sys. Design), Japan 
Member of IEEE, Member of IEB, Member of BCS. 
Research fields: Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Swarm Intelligence, Pattern Recognition and Bioinformatics. 
PABX Ext: 363 (Off.) / 364 (Res.) | Mobile: +880-1714-087205 
Email: akhand@cse.kuet.ac.bd, akhandkuet@yahoo.com 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/akhand


6. Dr. Pintu Chandra Shill                  
 B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET; M.Sc. Engg., Italy; Ph.D., Japan 
Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Fuzzy System, Evolutionary Algorithm, Genetic Algorithm and Artificial Intelligence. PABX Ext: 375 | Mobile: +880-1716-078655 
Email: pintu@cse.kuet.ac.bd, pintu98cse@yahoo.com, lpintucskuet@yahoo.com 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/pintu

7. Dr. Sk. Md. Masudul Ahsan             
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET; M.Sc. Engg., KUET; Ph.D., Japan 
Member of IEEE, Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Computer Vision, Image Processing, Deep Learning, Motion Estimation, High-dimensional Database Systems. 
PABX Ext: 8369 (Off.) / 8370 (Res.) | Mobile: +880-1714-087283 
Email: smahsan@cse.kuet.ac.bd, masudul.ahsan@gmail.com 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/smmasudul

                                                                             

                                           Assistant Professor

1. Mr. Md. Abdus Salim Mollah               
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET; M.Sc. Engg., BUET 
Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Artificial Intelligence, Pattern Recognition and Machine Intelligence and Digital System Design.
 PABX Ext: 357 | Mobile: +880-1714-087258 
Email: salim9326@yahoo.com 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/salim9326

2. Mr. Md. Kowsar Hossain                    
 B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET; M.Sc. Engg., Canada
 Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Evolutionary Algorithm, Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) and Vehicular Adhoc Networks (VANETs). 
PABX Ext: / | Mobile: +880-1717-283379
 Email: auvikuet@yahoo.com
 Website: www.sites.google.com/site/khossaincse


3. Mr. Al-Mahmud                               
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET; M.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET 
Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Soft Computing, Natural Language Processing and Bio-inspired Computing. 
PABX Ext: 367 | Mobile: +880-1924-332593, +880-1723-593626 
Email: mahmud@cse.kuet.ac.bd, rocky_cse_05@yahoo.com
 Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/mahmud


4. Ms. Mehnuma Tabassum Omar           
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET; M.Sc. Eng. (CSE), KUET 
Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Database, Data Mining, Scalable Data Structure, Tensor Computation. 
PABX Ext: 361 | Mobile: +880-1720-119028 
Email: tabassum@cse.kuet.ac.bd, misty2409@gmail.com 
Website: www.cse.kuet.ac.bd/mehnumatabassumomar

5. Mr. Saifuddin Mahmud                             
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET 
Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Embedded Systems, Computer Networks. 
PABX Ext: / | Mobile:+880-1719-407098 
Email: smahmud@cse.kuet.ac.bd, smahmud07@yahoo.com 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/smahmud

6. Mr. Sk. Imran Hossain                          
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET 
Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Machine Learning and Signal Processing. 
PABX Ext: 379 | Mobile: +880-1534-735887 
Email: imran@cse.kuet.ac.bd, imranhrana@gmail.com 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/imran

7. Mr. Jakaria Rabbi                                
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET 
Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Machine Learning, Big Data and Data Mining. 
PABX Ext: 377 | Mobile: +880-1912-818546 
Email: jakaria.rabbi@yahoo.com, jakaria_rabbi@kuet.ac.bd 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/jakaria


8. Mr. Md. Abdul Awal                                        
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET 
Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Image Processing, Data Mining and Machine Learning. 
PABX Ext: 373 | Mobile: +880-1815-940362 
Email: awal.kuet@yahoo.com, awal@cse.kuet.ac.bd 
Website: www.sites.google.com/site/abdulawal2k8


9. Mr. Md. Milon Islam              
B.Sc. Eng. (CSE), KUET 
Associate Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Embedded System, Computer Vision, Machine Learning, Bioinspired Computing and Solve Real Life Problems with the Concept of Computer Science. 
PABX Ext: 8361| Mobile: +880-1718-586174, +880-1571-712405 
Email: milonislam@cse.kuet.ac.bd, miloncsekuet@gmail.com 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/milonislam


10. Mr. Mohammad Insanur Rahman Shuvo 
B.Sc. Eng. (CSE), KUET 
Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Machine Learning, Bio-Inspired Computing, Natural Language Processing. 
PABX Ext: 8357| Mobile: +880-1671-685418 
Email: insan_shuvo@cse.kuet.ac.bd, shuvokuet09@gmail.com 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/insanur

11. Mr. Animesh Kumar Paul  
B.Sc. Eng. (CSE), KUET; M.Sc. Eng. (CSE), KUET 
Associate Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Machine Learning, Reinforcement Learning, Bioinformatics.
 PABX Ext: / |Mobile: +880-1731-969551 
Email: animesh.paul@cse.kuet.ac.bd, animesh10kuet@gmail.com 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/animesh

12. Mr. Shaikh Akib Shahriyar  
B.Sc. Eng. (CSE), KUET 
Associate Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Deep Learning, Machine Learning, Computational Intelligence, Computer Security and Reliability. 
PABX Ext: 8371 | Mobile: +880-1917-828888 
Email: akib.shahriyar@cse.kuet.ac.bd 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/akibshahriyar

13. Mr. Abdul Aziz 
B.Sc. Eng. (CSE), KUET 
Associate Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Database Systems. 
PABX Ext: 8373 | Mobile: +880-1753-258105, +880-1521-453235 
Email: abdulaziz@cse.kuet.ac.bd, mdabdulazizsorkar@gmail.com 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/abdulaziz

14. Mr. Prottoy Saha 
B.Sc. Eng. (CSE), BUET 
Associate Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Machine Learning, Pattern Recognition, Networking. 
PABX Ext: 8365 | Mobile: +880-1762-086775 
Email: prottoy@cse.kuet.ac.bd, prottoysaha99@gmail.com

15. Mr. H. M. Abdul Fattah  
B.Sc. Eng. (CSE), KUET 
Associate Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Machine Learning, Data mining, Natural Language Processing. 
PABX Ext: 8353 | Mobile: +880-1751-151728 
Email: hussainfattah@cse.kuet.ac.bd, hussainfattah59@gmail.com

16. Mr. Md. Masum Al Masba 
B.Sc. Eng. (CSE), KUET 
Associate Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Machine Learning, Data Mining 
PABX Ext: 8363 | Mobile: +880-1770-900052 
Email: masba@cse.kuet.ac.bd

17. Mr. Sunanda Das  
B.Sc. Eng. (CSE), KUET 
Associate Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Image Processing and Computer Vision, Internet of Things (IoT). 
PABX Ext: 8375 | Mobile: +880-1762-583358 
Email: sunanda@cse.kuet.ac.bd, sunandadas.cse@gmail.com


18. Ms. Nazia Jahan Khan Chowdhury 
B.Sc. Eng. (CSE), KUET 
Associate Member of IEB. 
Research fields: Image Processing, Computer Vision, Machine Learning. 
PABX Ext: 8351 | Mobile: +880-1682-039899 
Email: naziajkc@cse.kuet.ac.bd, naziajkc@gmail.com

19. Mrs Dola Das
B.Sc Engg. (CSE) , KUET ; M.Sc. Engg.(CSE),KUET
Associate Member of IEB
Research Fields : Advanced Cryptography , Advanced Embedded Systems , Internet of Things (IOT) , Machine Learning.
PABX Ext : /8337 | Mobile:+8801679502532
Email: dola.das@cse.kuet.ac.bd
Website : www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/dola_das


                                                                                         Lecturers

1. Mr. Md. Shamimur Rahman
B.Sc Engg (CSE), KUET, M.Sc Engg. (CSE), University of Saskatchewan, Canada.
Research Fields: Code Review, Code Clone, Software Maintenance
PABX Ext:/Mobile: +880-1723-165856,+880-1674-734822 
Email: md rahman@cse kuet.ac.bd
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/shamimur

2. Mr. Kazi Saeed Alam
B.Sc. Engg (CSE), KUET
Research Fields: Medical Imaging, Computer Vision, DeepLearning, Natural Language Processing 
PABX Ext:/Mobile: +880-1711-010136
Email: saeed.alam@cse.kuet.ac.bd, saeed.utsha@gmail.com
Website: www.kuet.ac bd/cse/saeedalam

3. Mr. S.M. Taslim Uddin Raju
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET
Research Fields: Biomedical Engineering, Machine Learning for Healthcare, Image Processing. Machine Learning Applications, Deep Learning and Natural Language Processing.
PABX Ext:/8359 | Mobile: +880-1706-494350
 Email: raju.taslim@cse.kuet.ac.bd 
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/raju_taslim

4. Mr. Md. Motaleb Hossen Manik
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET
Research Fields: Blockchain and Applications, Applied
Cryptography and Information Security, Machine Learning and Applications.
PABX Ext:/8379 | Mobile: +880-1722-136214
Email: mh.manik@cse.kuet.ac.bd
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/mhmanik

5. Mr. Md. Ahsan Habib
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET
Research Fields: Blockchain, Information Security, Maching Learning and Applications.
PABX Ext:/8371 | Mobile: +880-1773-756759
Email: mahabib@cse.kuet.ac.bd
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/mahabib



6. Mr. Md. Shahidul Salim
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET
Research Fields: Natural Language Processing, Machine Learning. Biomedical Engineering
PABX Ext:/8355 | Mobile: +880-1779-866124
Email: ss@cse.kuet.ac.bd
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/ss


7. Ms. Dipannita Biswas
B.Sc Engg (CSE). KUET
Research Dields: High-dimensional Data Analysis, Recommendation System, Deep Learning
PABX Ext: Mobile: +880-1817-533920
Email: dipannitabiswas8316@gmail.com
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/

8. Mr. Md. Repon Islam
B.Sc Engg. (CSE). KUET
Research Fields: Health Informatics, Cyber Security. Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things (IoT)
PABX Ext: Mobile: +88-0152-1427885
Email cse.repon@gmail.com
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/


9. Mr. Md. Sakhawat Hossain
B.Sc Engg (CSE), KUET
Research Fields: Artificial Intelligence, Natural Language Processing. Cyber Security
PABX Ext: Mobile: +880-1863-651897
Email: sakhawat3062@gmail.com
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/
10. Mr. Md Nazirulhasan Shawon
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET
Research Fields: Autonomous Vehicle System, Machine Learning. Artificial Intelligence.
PABX Ext: Mobile: +880-1609-810194
Email: nazırulhshawon@gmail.com
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/

11. Mr. Md. Badiuzzaman Shuvo
B.Sc. Engg. (CSE), KUET Research Fields: Artificial intelligence, Computer Networks.
PABX Ext:
Mobile: +880-1521-402506
Email: kshuvo99@gmail.com
Website: www.kuet.ac.bd/cse/

Laboratory Facilities KUET CSE
The department has eight laboratories which are well equipped and getting more resourceful day by day. Those are:

Computer Language & Computing Laboratory                                    Networking & Multimedia Laboratory Software & Web Engineering Laboratory                                   Mobile Games & Apps Development Center Computer Hardware & Interfacing Laboratory                                                 VDI Multi-Purpose Laboratory Digital Systems & VLSI Laboratory                                                                       Mobile Computing Laboratory

Computer Language & Computing Laboratory KUET CSE
Computer Language & Computing Laboratory provides computing facility to the students. This Laboratory consists of a Windows 2012 Server and thirty client machines which are configured in both windows and Linux operating systems. These machines have high speed Intel processors. All clients are connected to Internet facility. Software like Java (JDK), JSP, Visual Basic, Visual C++, CodeBlocks, Prolog, PHP, ASP and RDBMS like Oracle and SQL Server are installed in this Laboratory.



Software & Web Engineering Laboratory KUET CSE
The purpose of Software & Web Engineering Laboratory is to develop students’ knowledge about software engineering which involves computer-assisted method to organize and control the development of software, especially on large, complex projects. For this purpose this laboratory consists of a Windows 2012 Server and thirty clients which are connected by Local Area Networks and Internet facility. The clients are Dell brand machines model Optiplex-380 having Intel Core 2 duo Processors. Software installed in this Laboratory are Java (JDK), JSP, Visual Basic, Visual C++, CodeBlocks, Prolog, PHP, ASP and RDBMS like Oracle and SQL Server.

Computer Hardware & Interfacing Laboratory KUET CSE
Computer Hardware & Interfacing Laboratory is equipped with different latest tools to accomplish various hardware related design, testing and interfacing peripherals with microprocessors/ microcomputers. This laboratory has a rich collection of such devices for that purpose. The main equipment of this laboratory includes Microprocessor Trainer Kit 8088 (MTS-88C K&H), Microprocessor Trainer Kit 8086 (MDA-8086), Basic Computer Interface Control (C10-100),Scope Multimeter (DMM-740), Stepper Motor (MDA-012), AD/DA Experimental Board, Multi I/O Lab Card, Power Supply Unit Experimental System (AT-700), Oscilloscope, Analog Multimeter (ST-505), Digital Multimeter, Electronic Sensors Trainer, Portable EPROM Eraser, Function Generator, Digital Function Generator, Portable EPROM Programmer, Digital Portable Oscilloscope, DCA/ACA Clamp Meter (ST 3600), AC/DC Labtype Voltmeter (MSMB3), Digital Earth Tester (4105), Fiber Optic Power Meter (EFO-1102), Scope Card (Model 2100) , Data Acquisition Card etc. This laboratory also has a Server and twenty workstations connected by Local Area Network.

Digital Systems & VLSI Laboratory KUET CSE
The purpose of Digital Systems & VLSI Laboratory is to design and implement digital circuits and to gain adequate knowledge about digital systems. This Laboratory is equipped with a variety of modern tools which helps the students to experiment different digital systems. The main equipment of this Laboratory includes Scope Multimeter (DMM-740), Digital Experimental Trainer Kit ( LT-1000), Portable Digital IC Tester, Portable Linear IC Tester, Digital Signal Processing Controller (MDA-DSP), Power Supply Unit Experimental System (AT-700), Oscilloscope (AL210), Logic Probe (LP-2800), Analog Multimeter (ST-505), Digital Logic Circuit Trainer (K&H-OLS-2000), Portable EPROM Eraser, Logic Pulsar, Function Generator, Digital Function Generator, Digital LCR Meter, Portable EPROM Programmer, Digital Storage Oscilloscope, Digital Multimeter, Frequency Counter, Digital Earth Tester, EPROM Programmable. Besides, there are a huge number of ICs, Diodes, Capacitors, Resistor, to implement different digital circuits.

Networking & Multimedia Laboratory KUET CSE
Networking & Multimedia Laboratory is one of the most resourceful Laboratories of this department. This Laboratory consists of two COMPAQ Proliant ML550 Servers and Intranet Backbone Fiber Optic switch Model 3 COM Superstack 4900 by which the whole university is connected together. There are a number of CISCO equipment in this laboratory. These equipment enable advanced networking facility to this laboratory. It includes CISCO 10/100 Ethernet Routers (model 2600), CISCO Dual 10/100 Ethernet Routers, CISCO Catalyst Switches, Transceivers etc. Besides, the laboratory has a good number of tools like RJ45 Crimp Tools, Punch Down Tools, Wire Strippers, Side Cutters, LAN Cable Testers etc. and some networking software which helps student to gain knowledge and to develop advance networking based projects

Mobile Games & Apps Development Center KUET CSE
Mobile Games & Apps Development Center is one of the most resourceful laboratories of this department. The main focus of this center is to build new apps, games and test them in different environment. This lab consists of 12 HP desktop computer, 8 iMAC, 2 Samsung VR Gear, 1 iPad pro, Iphone 8 plus, Android Tab, Android Phone, 5 Wacom Intuos Pro Medium, Oculus Rift, Xbox One, Sony Play Station 4 Pro, Nintendo Entertainment System, Smart TV (Android) and many other things. The lab can accommodate 32 students.

VDI Multi-Purpose Laboratory KUET CSE
VDI Multi-Purpose Laboratory provides programming facility for students. This Laboratory consists of a Vnopn Server and sixty client machines which are configured in windows. All clients are connected to Internet facility. The clients can be monitored using Vnopn Server. The lab consists of 10 Raspberry Pi. Software like Java (JDK), JSP, Visual Basic, Visual C++, CodeBlocks are installed in this Laboratory.

Mobile Computing Laboratory KUET CSE
Mobile Computing Laboratory studies design principles and evaluation methodologies for understanding and building systems supports mechanisms for mobile computing systems including mobile ad hoc and sensor networks for achieving the goal of anytime, anywhere computing in wireless mobile environments. The primary research focuses of the lab are in mobility management, data and service management, security and dependability aspects in mobile computing environments. This lab consists of 12 MACs and other highly configuration PCs


Khulna University of Engineering & Technology 
Academic Ordinance for Undergraduate Studies

(Effective from 2nd Term of Session 2011-2012) (Approved by 38th meeting of Academic Council on 08/07/12 & 15/07/12 and confirmed by 39th meeting of Academic Council on 13/11/12 & 15/11/12)
1. Definitions 
1.1. ‘University’ means the Khulna University of Engineering & Technology. 
1.2. ‘Syndicate’ means the Syndicate of the University.
 1.3. ‘Academic Council’ means the Academic Council of the University. 
1.4. ‘Vice-Chancellor’ means the Vice-Chancellor of the University. 
1.5. 'Dean' means the Dean of a Faculty of the University. 
1.6. 'Head of the Department' means the Head of a Department of the University.
 1.7. ‘Central Equivalence Committee’ means the Central Equivalence Committee of the University. 
1.8. ‘Academic Committee’ means the Academic Committee for Undergraduate Studies (ACUG) of a degree awarding department of the University. 
1.9. ‘Degree’ means the degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering or Bachelor of Urban & Regional Planning offered by the University. 
1.10. ‘Senior most Head/Dean’ means the most senior teacher among Heads/Deans.

2. Departments 
2.1. Degree Awarding Departments: 
The University shall have the following degree awarding departments: 
i) Department of Civil Engineering 
ii) Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
iii) Department of Mechanical Engineering 
iv) Department of Computer Science and Engineering 
v) Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering 
vi) Department of Industrial Engineering and Management 
vii) Department of Urban and Regional Planning 
viii) Department of Leather Engineering 
ix) Department of Textile Engineering 
x) Department of Building Engineering and Construction Management 
xi) Department of Biomedical Engineering 
xii) Department of Energy Science and Engineering 
xiii) Department of Architecture
 xiv) Department of Material Science and Engineering
xv) Department of Chemical Engineering 
xvi) Department of Mechatronics Engineering Any other department to be instituted by the Syndicate on the recommendation of the Academic Council from time to time.

2.2. Teaching Departments: 
The University shall have the following teaching departments: 
i) Department of Civil Engineering
ii) Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
iii) Department of Mechanical Engineering 
iv) Department of Computer Science and Engineering
 v) Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering 
vi) Department of Industrial Engineering and Management 
vii) Department of Energy Science and Engineering 
viii) Department of Biomedical Engineering
 ix) Department of Urban and Regional Planning 
x) Department of Leather Engineering 
xi) Department of Textile Engineering
 xii) Department of Building Engineering and Construction Management 
xiii) Department of Architecture 
xiv) Department of Materials Science and Engineering 
xv) Department of Chemical Engineering
 xvi) Department of Mechatronics Engineering 
xvii) Department of Mathematics
 xviii) Department of Chemistry 
xix) Department of Physics 
xx) Department of Humanities Any other department that may be instituted by the Syndicate on the recommendation of the Academic Council from time to time.
3. Degrees Offered KUET
The University shall offer courses leading to the award of the following degrees: 
i) Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (CE)
 ii) Bachelor of Science in Electrical & Electronic Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (EEE) 
iii) Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (ME) 
iv) Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (CSE)
v) Bachelor of Science in Electronics & Communication Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (ECE) 
vi) Bachelor of Science in Industrial & Production Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (IPE) 
vii) Bachelor of Urban & Regional Planning, abbreviated as BURP 
viii) Bachelor of Science in Leather Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (LE) 
ix) Bachelor of Science in Textile Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (TE) 
x) Bachelor of Science in Building Engineering and Construction Management, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (BECM) 
xi) Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (BME) 
xii) Bachelor of Science in Energy Science and Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (ESE)
 xiii) Bachelor of Architecture, abbreviated as BArch
 xiv) Bachelor of Science in Materials Science and Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (MSE)
 xv) Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (Chemical) 
xvi) Bachelor of Science in Mechatronics Engineering, abbreviated as B. Sc. Eng. (Mechat) Any other degree that may be awarded by a department on the recommendation of the Academic Council and approval of the Syndicate from time to time.

4. Students Admission KUET
4.1 The four academic years of study for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering (B. Sc. Eng.)/ Bachelor of Urban & Regional Planning (BURP) and five years of study for Bachelor of Architecture (BArch) shall be designated as first year, second year, third year, fourth year and fifth year class in succeeding higher levels of study. Students shall generally be admitted into the first year class.

4.2 An Admission Committee shall be formed in each academic year/session by the Academic Council for admission into first year B. Sc. Eng./ BURP/BArch class consisting of the following members: 
i) One of the Deans in order of seniority (as Professor) for each year by rotation Chairman 
ii) All other Deans Member
iii) Five senior most Heads of the Departments Member 
iv) Registrar Secretary

The Committee is empowered to co-opt member/members (if required) not below the rank of a professor.

4.3 A candidate for admission into the first year class must have passed the H.S.C. Examination from an Education Board in Bangladesh (after 12 years of schooling) with Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics as his/her subjects of examination in Higher Secondary level or examination recognized as equivalent thereto, and must also fulfill all other requirements as may be prescribed by the Academic Council on the recommendation of the Admission Committee. In case of confusion regarding the equivalence the case may be referred to Central Equivalence Committee

4.4 The rules and conditions for admission into different departments shall be framed by the Academic Council on the recommendation of the Admission Committee in each year

4.5 All candidates for admission into the courses of B. Sc. Eng./BURP/BArch must be citizens of Bangladesh unless the candidature is against the seats those are reserved for foreign students. Candidates for all seats except the reserved ones, if any, shall be selected on the basis of merit. The rules for admission into the reserved seats shall be framed by the Academic Council on the recommendation of the Admission Committee.

4.6 No student shall ordinarily be admitted in the first year class after the start of the corresponding classes or after the call goes out for the admission whichever is later. The date of commencement of classes for the newly admitted students will be announced in advance.

4.7 Admission of a newly admitted student in the first year class will be cancelled if he/she remains absent without prior permission of the Registrar through the Head of the Department for first 2 (two) consecutive weeks after the start of class. If any student fails to report due to unavoidable circumstances within the stipulated first two weeks, he/she may appeal within the next 2 (two) weeks to the Academic Council through the Head of the Department. The decision of the Academic Council will be final. 

4.8 Prior to admission to the University every student shall be examined by a competent medical officer as prescribed in the admission rules.

5. Admission on Transfer 5.1 There shall be no admission on transfer in the first year class. In special cases, students may be admitted into a higher class.

5.2 A student may be allowed to transfer a maximum of 50% of the required theory courses of this University completed by the student at other public universities/institutions. The candidate must have a minimum CGPA of 3.0 without any F grade in any course and there should not be any discontinuity of study.

5.3 A candidate seeking admission on transfer from other public university should apply to the Registrar of this University. The Registrar will refer the case to the Head of the Department concerned and also to the Central Equivalence Committee. On receiving the opinions of the Departmental Monitoring Committee, the Central Equivalence Committee will consider the matter and it will be placed before the Academic Council. The decision of the Academic Council will be final and it will be communicated to the Head of the Department and the candidate.

5.4 Central Equivalence Committee 
The Central Equivalence Committee will be formed as follows: 
i) One of the Deans (by rotation CE, EEE and ME) of this University Chairman 
ii) All other Deans Member
iii) All Heads of the Undergraduate Departments Member 
iv) Deputy Registrar (Academic) of this University Duration of Chairman of this committee will be 2 (two) years Secretary

6. Academic Calendar KUET
6.1 The academic year shall ordinarily be divided into two regular Terms, each ordinarily having duration of not less than 13 (thirteen) weeks of classes.
 6.2 There shall be a final examination at the end of each Term and the examination will be conducted as per Academic regulations. 
6.3 The Head of the Department will announce the academic schedule for each Term ordinarily before the start of the class subject to the approval of the Academic Council.

6.4 Academic schedule may be prepared according to the following guidelines based on two regular Terms:

Term I                                                                              No. of weeks 
Classes                                                                                      13
Recess before examination/Preparatory leave                1.3*
Term Final Examination                                                        3.1*
Publication of results including Term break                      2.3*
Sub-total:                                                                                 20

Term II                                                                                                    13
Classes Recess before examination/Preparatory leave                 1.3*
Term Final Examination                                                                       3.1*
Publication of results including Term break                                    2.3*
Sub-Total:                                                                                                20

Recess                                                                                                      1** 
Vacations throughout the session                                                       11 
Total:                                                                                                     52 Weeks

* The digit after the decimal point indicates number of days. 
** This recess may be utilized near the mid position of a Term when no vacation of minimum 7 (seven) days will be available during 13 (thirteen) week classes in that Term.

7. Duration and Credit of Courses KUET
 7.1 The B. Sc. Eng./BURP courses shall be extended over a period of four academic years and that for BArch shall be five academic years, each with a normal duration of one calendar year. Each academic year will be divided into two Terms for the purpose of academic programs and conducting of examinations. 
7.2 The curricula of the B. Sc. Eng./BURP/BArch degree in the different departments shall be as proposed by the concerned ACUG through the Executive Committee of the concerned Faculty and approved by the Academic Council. 
7.3 The ACUG may review the curricula once in every academic year and put forward suggestions to the Academic Council through the Executive Committee of the concerned Faculty.
7.4 Teaching for the courses is reckoned in credits and the credits allotted to various courses will be determined by the ACUG with the following guidelines:

Type of Course                                                          Contact Hour (in a Term)                                   No. of Credit i) Theory/Lecture :                                                       1 hour/week                                                             1.00                                        ii) Tutorial :                                                                    1 hour/week                                                             1.00 iii)Independent Lab/ Sessional/ Design/Studio/Seminar/Special Study /Project / Thesis : 3/2 hours/week                           0.75 
iv) Field work :                                                              2 weeks of field work                                                1.00

7.5 The minimum number of credits that a student has to complete successfully for the award of B. Sc. Eng./ BURP degree will be 160 and that for BArch degree will be 200 of which a maximum of 150 credits and 185 credits, respectively to be assigned as core courses.
7.6 The total contact hours for students including lecture, tutorial and laboratory/sessional should be around 30 periods per week, each period being of 50 minutes duration. 
7.7 A course plan for each course proposed by the course teacher with the consultation of the Head of the Department showing details of lectures is to be announced at the start of each Term. 
7.8 Project/Thesis should preferably be of 1.5 to 3.0 credits in each Term. Credit in any theory course should not exceed 4.0 and that in sessional/laboratory course should not exceed 3.0 and for studio should not exceed 10.

8. Course Designation and Numbering System KUET
Each course is designated by a two to four letter code (e.g. CE, EE, ME, Hum, Math, Ch, Ph, etc) identifying the course offering department followed by a fourdigit number with the following criteria: 
8.1 The first digit will correspond to the year in which the students normally take the course. 
8.2 The second digit will correspond the Term (1 for 1st Term, 2 for 2nd Term and 0/1/2 for both Terms in case of optional courses only) in which the course is normally taken by the students. 
8.3 The third and fourth digits will be reserved for departmental use, of which the last digit will be odd for theoretical and even for sessional/laboratory course. 
8.4 The course designation system is illustrated by the following example:
CSE 2201                                               Course Title:                                                                                                                                                                                                 3rd and 4th digits are reserved for departmental use. Last digit designates a course (odd No. for theoretical and even No. for sessional/laboratory course). 
Second digit signifies Term number (1 for 1st Term, 2 for 2nd Term and 0/1/2 for both Terms in case of optional courses only). 
First digit signifies year (Second year). 
Departmental identification code (Computer Science and Engineering).

N.B.: There will be one blank space after departmental identification code. 
8.5 Project/thesis courses for B.Sc. Eng/BURP shall be designated by the departmental identification code followed by 4000 (Example: CE 4000) applicable for both the Terms. For BArch the code shall be 5000.

9. Classification of Courses in KUET
The courses included in undergraduate curricula are classified as follows: 
9.1 Core Courses In each department a number of courses will be identified as core courses which form the nucleus of the respective Bachelor’s degree program. A student has to complete all the designated core courses for his/her degree. 
9.2 Pre-requisite Courses Some of the core courses are identified as pre-requisite courses. A pre-requisite course is one which is required to be completed/appeared at the examination before some other course(s) can be taken. Any such course, on which one or more subsequent courses built up, may be offered in each of the two regular Terms (if possible). 
9.3 Optional Courses Apart from the core courses, a student will have to take a number of courses which he/she can choose from a specified group/number of courses to complete the credit requirements. 
9.4 Non Credit Courses Non credit course(s) may be offered to a student to improve his/her knowledge in some specific fields. The credits in these courses will not be counted for GPA and CGPA calculation but will be reflected in the transcript as satisfactory (S)/unsatisfactory (U). Non-credit course(s) may be offered under the following circumstances: If a student's Thesis/Project supervisor feels that the study/design is highly related to course(s) offered by any department for their students, he can recommend to the concerned Head of the Department for participation of the student(s) in the course(s). Such registration of course(s) will not affect the normal course registration of the student.
 9.5 Backlog Courses The course(s) which a student registered in a Term but after Term final examination he/she obtained ‘F’ grade in that course(s) and also the withdrawal courses as defined by Article 23.1(ii). 9.6 Withdrawal Courses The courses which were withdrawn by a student due to some reasons as mentioned in Article 11.8. 
9.7 Incomplete Courses The unregistered course(s) and the course(s) that a student has registered but cancelled according to Article 11.3 will be defined as incomplete course(s).

9. Classification of Courses in KUET
The courses included in undergraduate curricula are classified as follows:
9.1 Core Courses In each department a number of courses will be identified as core courses which form the nucleus of the respective Bachelor’s degree program. A student has to complete all the designated core courses for his/her degree. 
9.2 Pre-requisite Courses Some of the core courses are identified as pre-requisite courses. A pre-requisite course is one which is required to be completed/appeared at the examination before some other course(s) can be taken. Any such course, on which one or more subsequent courses built up, may be offered in each of the two regular Terms (if possible). 
9.3 Optional Courses Apart from the core courses, a student will have to take a number of courses which he/she can choose from a specified group/number of courses to complete the credit requirements. 
9.4 Non Credit Courses Non credit course(s) may be offered to a student to improve his/her knowledge in some specific fields. The credits in these courses will not be counted for GPA and CGPA calculation but will be reflected in the transcript as satisfactory (S)/unsatisfactory (U). Non-credit course(s) may be offered under the following circumstances: If a student's Thesis/Project supervisor feels that the study/design is highly related to course(s) offered by any department for their students, he can recommend to the concerned Head of the Department for participation of the student(s) in the course(s). Such registration of course(s) will not affect the normal course registration of the student. 
9.5 Backlog Courses KUET
The course(s) which a student registered in a Term but after Term final examination he/she obtained ‘F’ grade in that course(s) and also the withdrawal courses as defined by Article 23.1(ii). 
9.6 Withdrawal Courses 
The courses which were withdrawn by a student due to some reasons as mentioned in Article 11.8. 
9.7 Incomplete Courses 
The unregistered course(s) and the course(s) that a student has registered but cancelled according to Article 11.3 will be defined as incomplete course(s).

10. Departmental Functional Bodies KUET
10.1 Departmental Monitoring Committee Each degree-awarding department will form a Departmental Monitoring Committee with Head of the Department as Chairman and 4 (four) senior most teachers of the department as members. The Committee may propose any change and modifications time to time needed for upgrading/changing the Undergraduate Course Curriculum to ACUG. The Committee will also nominate Course Coordinator and Advisers for the student. 
10.2 Student Adviser An Adviser (normally not below the rank of Assistant Professor) will be nominated for one or more students for the entire period of study by the Departmental Monitoring Committee. He/She will advise each student on the courses to be taken in a Term. However, it is the student’s responsibility to keep contact with the Adviser who will review and eventually approve the student’s specific plan of study and monitor on subsequent progress of the student. For a student of second and subsequent Terms, the type of courses for which he/she can register will be decided on the basis of his/her academic performance during the previous Term. The Adviser will advise the students to register the courses during the next Term within the framework of the guidelines in respect of minimum/maximum credit hours limit. He/She may advise the student to change one or more courses among the offered courses based on student’s academic performance. 
10.3 Course Coordinator In each degree-awarding department, one of the Teachers (normally not below the rank of Assistant Professor) nominated by the Departmental Monitoring Committee, will act normally for 2 (two) Terms as Course Coordinator and Member Secretary to the ACUG. 
11. Course Registration for Regular/Incomplete/Withdrawal Course(s) KUET
11.1 Pre-condition for Registration A student will be allowed to register courses, depending upon his/her performance. If a student fails in a pre-requisite course in any term, he can register for a course which builds on the pre-requisite course provided his attendance does not fall below 60%. A student having outstanding dues to the University or a Hall of Residence shall not be permitted to register. 
11.2 A regular student can register a maximum of 5 (five) theoretical courses in addition to sessional/project/thesis/ field work/seminar/sessional related courses in a Term those offered in that Term in any Year. No student will be allowed to register courses from different Terms in any Term (For example: In case of registration for 1st Year 1st Term, a student can register maximum five theoretical courses in addition to sessional courses/sessional related courses among the offered courses for 1st Year 1st Term only). No student can register any backlog course along with the regular courses in a Term. The total number of credit hours shall generally be between 15 to 24 credits in a Term. However, a student may be allowed to register less than 15 (fifteen) credits in a Term if
 i) the number of credits required for graduation is less than 15 (fifteen) in that Term and 
ii) he/she cannot find appropriate courses for registration.
11.3 If a student fails to attend 60% of the classes of any registered course in a Term whatever be the reasons, then the registration will be cancelled for that course and the course be treated as Incomplete course. 
11.4 Registration Procedure 
The date and time for registration will be announced in advance by the Registrar’s office. Students will register his/her courses in a Term according to following guidelines: 
i) A student must pay Hall dues before the course registration of a Term. 
ii) The student must pay the course registration fees as per rule. 
iii) The student will finalize courses to be taken in consultation with his/her Adviser from the courses offered by the respective Department 
iv) The student will complete the registration and respective Adviser and Head of the Department will confirm it. 
The Registrar’s office will distribute course-wise list of registered students to the concerned department and Controller of examinations. 
11.5 Registration Deadline
 A student must register for the courses to be taken within first 8 (eight) working days of class of each Term. However, late registration will be permitted within next 7 (seven) working days of class on payment of late registration fee. No registration will be accepted after first 15 (fifteen) working days of class of each Term.
 For the newly admitted first year students, relaxation up to a maximum of 10 (ten) working days of class from the beginning of the Term may be allowed. Late registration of first year student will not be accepted after these days unless the student submits a written appeal to the Registrar through the concerned Head of the Department and can document extenuating circumstances such as medical problems (Physically incapacitated and not able to be present) or some other academic commitments which precluded enrolling prior to the last date of registration. Proper certificates from concerned authorities must be submitted along with the application.
11.6 Penalty for Late Registration 
Students who fail to register within the specified dates for registration will be charged a late registration fee (an amount as may be decided by the authority). This extra fee will not be waived whatever be the reason for late registration. 
11.7 Course Adjustment Procedure 
A student would have some limited options to add or delete courses from his/her registration list. Addition of course is allowed within the 10 (ten) working days of class from the beginning of the Term. Dropping of a course is allowed within 15 (fifteen) working days of class from the beginning of the Term. Adjustment of initially registered courses in any Term can be done only by duly completing the Course Adjustment Form. Any student willing to add or drop courses will have to fill up a Course Adjustment Form in consultation with his/her Adviser. The original copy of the Course Adjustment Form will be submitted to the Registrar’s office through the Adviser and Head of the Department. 
11.8 Withdrawal from a Term 
If a student is unable to complete the Term Final Examination due to illness, accident or any other valid reason, etc. he/she may apply in prescribed form to the Registrar through his/her Adviser and Head of the Department for total withdrawal from the Term within 7 (seven) working days after the end of the Term final examination. However, he/she may choose not to withdraw any laboratory/sessional/design/Studio course if the grade obtained in such a course is ‘D’ or better and that he/she has to indicate clearly in his/her withdrawal application. In case of illness the withdrawal application must be supported by a medical certificate from University Medical Officer. The Academic Council will take final decision about such an application

12. Striking off the Names and Readmission 
12.1 The names of the students shall be struck off and removed from the rolls on the following grounds: i) Non-payment of University fees and dues within the prescribed period. 
ii) Forced to discontinue his/her studies under disciplinary rules. 
iii) Withdrawal of names from the rolls of the University on grounds acceptable to the Vice-Chancellor of the University after having cleared all dues. 
iv) A student failing to earn a minimum of 36 (thirty six) credits in the first 4 (four) consecutive Terms or 54 credits in the first 6 (six) consecutive Terms will cease to be student of this University. However, any student forced to discontinue his/her studies under Article 12.6(iii), the period of discontinuance should be excluded in calculating the time (4 consecutive Terms or 6 consecutive Terms). 
v) Could not earn required credits for graduation as outlined in the respective curriculum and/or fulfill CGPA requirement within the maximum allowed time of 7 (seven) consecutive academic years
12.2 Every student whose name has been struck off from the rolls by exercise of the clause (ii) of Article 12. 1 seeking readmission after expiry of the period for which he/she was forced to discontinue his/her studies, shall submit an application to the Head of the Department in the prescribed form before the commencement of the session to which he/she seeks readmission. The Head of the Department shall forward the application to the Vice-Chancellor of the University with his remarks. In case the readmission is allowed, the student will be required to get him/her-self admitted on payment of all dues not later than one week from the date of permission given by the Vice-Chancellor. All re-admission should preferably be completed before the Term starts. 
12.3 No student who has withdrawn his/her name under clause (iii) of Article 12.1 shall be given readmission. 
12.4 A student, whose name has been struck off from the rolls by exercise of clause (v) of Article 12.1, is not eligible to seek readmission. 
12.5 In case a student whose name has been struck off from the rolls under clause (i) of Article 12.1 seeks readmission before the start of the next Term he/she shall be readmitted on payment of all arrear fees and dues (excluding course registration fees). But if he/she seeks readmission in any subsequent year the procedure for his/her readmission will be the same as described in Article 12.2 
12.6 Readmission for discontinuance of studies
 A student will be considered to discontinue his studies under the following conditions:
 i) Non-payment of University fees and other dues for Terms concern 
ii) Withdrawal from a Term/absent in the Term final examination.
 iii) Forced to discontinue under disciplinary rules. 
The maximum allowable period of discontinuance is 4 (four) regular Terms during his/her whole studentship whatever may be the reason as specified above and at the same time s/he will have to fulfill the conditions of Article 12.1 (iv). A student seeking readmission within the allowable period of discontinuance may be readmitted after payment of all arrear fees and dues. 
12.7 In case any application for readmission is rejected, the student may appeal to the Academic Council for re-consideration. The decision of the Academic Council shall be final.

13. Grading System and Calculation of GPA and CGPA 
13.1 Grading System The letter grade system shall be used to assess the performance of the student and shall be as follows:

Numerical Grade                                                Letter  Grade                                                            Grade Point 80% or above                                                           A+    A plus                                                                          4.00 75% to less than 80%                                             A       A                                                                                  3.75 70% to less than 75%                                             A-     A minus                                                                       3.50 65% to less than 70%                                             B+     B plus                                                                          3.25 60% to less than 65%                                             B        B                                                                                  3.00 55% to less than 60%                                             B-       B minus                                                                      2.75 50% to less than 55%                                             C+      C plus                                                                          2.50 45% to less than 50%                                             C         C                                                                                  2.25 40% to less than 45 %                                            D         D                                                                                 2.00 Less than 40%                                                          F                                                                                             0.00 Continuous assessment                                         X

(For courses extended over two regular Terms, such as project/thesis/design, etc.) 
Withdrawal          W 
Incomplete            I
Non Credit Course S/U (Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory)
13.2 Calculation of GPA and CGPA Grade point average (GPA) is the weighted average of the grade points obtained in all the courses passed/completed by a student in a Term. ‘F’ grades will not be counted for GPA calculation. GPA of a Term will be calculated as follows:
                                                                            GPA = ∑i=(1 to n) Ci Gi / ∑(i=1 to n) Ci

where n is the total number of courses passed by the student, Ci is the number of credits allotted to a particular course i and Gi is the grade point corresponding to the grade awarded for i-th course. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) gives the cumulative performance of the student from first Term up to any other Term to which it refers and is computed by dividing the total weighted grade points ( ∑CiGi ) accumulated up to the date by the total credit hours ( ∑Ci ) 
Both GPA and CGPA will be rounded off to the second place of decimal for reporting

14. Distribution of Marks KUET
14.1 The distribution of marks for a given course will be as follows: 
i) Theory courses:

Class participation, attendance and assignments                                                                                      10% Class tests, Quizzes, Spot test, etc.                                                                                                               20% Term Final Examination (3 hours duration)                                                                                                 70% Total:                                                                                                                                                                  100%

ii) Independent laboratory/design/ Studio/ field work courses: 
Class participation and attendance                                                                                                               10% Quizzes, Viva-Voce conducted in lab class                                                                                                   20% Viva-Voce conducted centrally                                                                                                                       20% Performance and reports                                                                                                                                50% Total:                                                                                                                                                                  100%
 
iii) Project/thesis: (Continued for two Terms) 
a)	At the end of 1st term of 4th year B.Sc. Eng./BURP and 5th year BArch : 30% of total marks to be evaluated as follows:
Presentation and viva-voce (conducted by a viva voce committee)                                                     10% Supervisor                                                                                                                                                        20%

b)	At the end of 2nd term of 4th year B.Sc.Eng/ BURP and 5th year BArch 70% of the total marks to be evaluated as follows: 
 Presentation and viva-voce (conducted by a viva voce committee)                                                      20% Supervisor                                                                                                                                                          40% External examiner (any other teacher of the Department/a member of examination committee) 10% Total (in two Terms):                                                                                                                                     100%
14.2 Attendance 
i) Eligibility for Scholarship/stipend/grant The students whose percentage of attendance will fall short of 75% in any of the theory, lab/sessional/Studio courses for which he/she has registered in any Term of an academic year shall not be eligible for the award of any type of scholarship/stipend/grant for the following academic year.
 ii) Basis for awarding marks for attendance will be as follows:

Attendance                                                                                           Marks (%) 
90% and above                                                                                          100%                                                     85% to less than 90%                                                                                90%                                                  80% to less than 85%                                                                                80%                                                         75% to less than 80%                                                                                70%                                                           70% to less than 75%                                                                                60%                                                   65% to less than 70%                                                                                50%                                                 60% to less than 65%                                                                                40%

15. Class Tests, Quiz and Spot Test KUET
15.1 For theory courses 3 class tests will be taken. Normally no more class tests will be taken on any course. 
15.2 The class teacher will assign problems to the students and take spot test and quiz examination for assessment. 
15.3 The date of class tests/quiz shall be fixed by the course teacher in consultation with the Head of the Department. 
15.4 Duration of class tests should be 20-30 minutes and quizzes and spot tests should be 10-20 minutes. 
15.5 All class tests shall ordinarily be of equal value. The result of each individual class test shall be posted for information of the students preferably before the next class test is held.

16. Earned Credits, Backlog and CGPA Improvement KUET
The courses in which a student has obtained ‘D’ or a higher grade will be counted as credits earned by him/her. Any course in which a student has obtained ‘F’ grade will not be counted towards his/her earned credits calculation. A student who obtains an ‘F’ grade in any core course in any Term, he/she will have to repeat the course. If a student obtains an ‘F’ in an optional course he/she may choose to repeat the course or take a substitute course, if available. F grades will not be counted for GPA calculation but will stay permanently on the grade sheet and transcript. When a student will repeat a Backlog course in which he/she previously obtained ‘F’ grade, he/she will not be eligible to get a grade better than B+ (B plus) in such a course. A student obtaining D grade in a course, will be allowed to repeat the course for the purpose of grade improvement if CGPA of the student falls below 2.20 In such case he/she will be awarded the new grade thus he/she obtains or retains his/her previous grade if he/she fails. A student obtaining ‘C’ or a better grade in a course will not be allowed to repeat the course for the purpose of grade improvement if CGPA of the student falls below 2.20. Absence in Term final examination will result ‘F’ grade unless he/she has withdrawn from the Term as per Article 11.8.

17. Performance Evaluation KUET
The minimum CGPA requirement for obtaining a B. Sc. Eng./BURP/BArch degree is 2.20. The performance of a student will be evaluated in terms of two indices, viz. GPA and CGPA. Students will be considered to be making normal progress toward a degree if their CGPA for all courses passed is 2.20 or more. Students whose GPA will fall below 2.20 will have to appeal to the Head of the Department through his Adviser for the course registration so that the necessary remedial measures can be taken.

18. Honors, Dean's List and University Gold Medal KUET
18.1 Honors 
Candidates for Bachelor’s degree will be awarded the degree with Honors if their CGPA is 3.75 or better. 
18.2 Dean's List 
In recognition of excellent performance, the names of students who maintains an average GPA of 3.75 or above in two regular Terms of an academic year may be published in the Dean's List in each Faculty and he/she will be given a certificate from respective Dean as recognition. Students who have received an 'F' grade in any course during any of the two consecutive regular Terms will not be considered for Dean's List in that year. 
18.3 University Gold Medal 
University Gold Medal for outstanding graduates will be presented to the students who secure the 1st position in each Department and whose CGPA is above or equal to 3.75. The student must have completed his/her undergraduate course work within four consecutive academic years for B.Sc. Eng./BURP and five consecutive academic years for BArch with no 'F' grades and have a satisfactory attendance to his credit.

19. Student Classification Regular students of the University are normally classified according to the number of credit hours earned from first admission in the University. The following year wise classification applies to the students.

Year                                                                                                     Earned Credits                                             First Year                                                                                                  > 0 to 30                                      Second Year                                                                                             > 30 to 60                                         Third Year                                                                                                 > 60 to 90                                               Fourth Year                                                                                              > 90 For B.Sc. Eng./BURP                                                                                                     > 90 to 120 for BArch 
Fifth year                                                                                                  > 120 for BArch

20. Probation and Suspension 
Students who fail to maintain minimum GPA of 2.20 and could not complete the minimum credit requirements may be placed on academic probation. The status of academic probation is a reminder/warning to the student that satisfactory progress towards graduation is not being made. A student may be placed on academic probation when either of the following conditions exists:
i) The GPA falls below    2.20, or
ii) The CGPA falls below 2.20
Students on probation are subjected to such restrictions with respect to courses and extracurricular activities as may be imposed by the respective Head of the Department. The minimum period of probation is one Term, but the usual period is one academic year. A student must improve himself during this period and will be required to pass the backlog courses. Any student who doesn't improve himself/herself during probation period may be suspended on receiving report from the Head of the Department.
A student on academic probation who fails to maintain a GPA of at least 2.20 during two consecutive academic years may be suspended from the University. A student who has been suspended may apply for consideration to the ViceChancellor.
Petitions for reinstatement must indicate clearly the reasons for the previous unsatisfactory academic record. It must describe the improved conditions that have been created to prevent the recurrence of such work. Each such petition will be considered individually on its own merits. After consideration of the petition and after consultation with the student Adviser and the respective Head of the Department, the Vice-Chancellor in some cases may reinstate the student if this is the first suspension. However, a second suspension case will be placed before the Academic Council for final decision.

21. Measures to complete Backlog courses 
The following provisions will be made as far as possible to help the students to enable them to complete their studies within the maximum period of seven consecutive years (fourteen Terms) for B.Sc. Eng./BURP and Eight consecutive years (Sixteen terms) for BArch. In this context, the students may be allowed to take backlog courses subject to the approval of his/her Adviser and Head of the Department based on the following rules:
i) The Backlog examination will be held once in an academic year. 
ii) A student can register backlog courses normally during 6th to 8th weeks of classes of each even Term from 1st Year 2nd Term to 4th year 1st term for B.Sc. Eng./BURP and 1st year 2nd term to 5th Year 1st Term for BArch as self-study (i.e., retaining the already obtained marks of class tests and class attendance with class performance & assignments). 
iii) A student can register maximum 12 (twelve) credits among the backlog courses of previous all Terms and the name of backlog examination is Backlog Examination with the year of examination same as regular examination.
iv) The backlog examination will be started after 10 (ten) days from the last examination of the regular even Term courses of the concerned department and the interval between the backlog courses will be same as regular examination. 
v) The date and time for registration will be announced in advance by the Registrar’s office.


22. Special Backlog Examination 
The Special Backlog Examination on only backlog courses may be conducted for the students who have participated in their 4-year (up to 4th year 2nd Term) for B.Sc. Eng./ BURP and five-year (up to 5th year 2nd term) for BArch degree course and have a shortage of maximum 12 (twelve) credits to obtain Bachelor degree. The special backlog examination will be arranged in a convenient time by the Head of the Department after 30 (thirty) days of publication of results of the 4th Year 2nd Term for B. Sc. Eng./BURP and 5th year 2nd Term for BArch regular examination. The evaluation system will be the same as backlog with selfstudy. The students willing to appear at the special backlog examination have to apply to the Head of the Department and with his permission must register within 7 (seven) working days of publication of 4th Year 2nd Term for B. Sc. Eng/BURP and 5th year 2nd Term for BArch and Backlog examination results (whichever is later). A student who has failed in the special backlog examination will register the course(s) in the regular Terms

23. Rules for Backlog/Withdrawal/Incomplete Courses 
In addition to that mentioned in Article 21 students having Backlog/Withdrawal/Incomplete courses may register the courses according to the following rules. Any Backlog course (theory) will be registered as self-study or backlog; but in sessional/sessional related Backlog/Withdrawal/ Incomplete course(s) he/she must attend the classes and secure minimum 60% attendance.

23.1 Students having Withdrawal/Incomplete Courses 
i) If any student withdraws all the courses or only theoretical courses in any Term, he/she may be allowed to register all the withdrawal courses or theoretical courses in any subsequent Term when those courses are offered for regular students. 
ii) If any student fulfilled the attendance requirement of 60% in any withdrawal course, in that particular case, he/she may be allowed to register those courses as backlog courses with the evaluation system same as backlog courses.
iii) If any student has Incomplete courses and the number of courses is more than 2 (two), he/she may be allowed to register the courses in any Term as mentioned in 23.1(i).

23.2 Students having Backlog/Withdrawal/Incomplete Courses after participating 4th year 2nd Term for B.Sc. Eng./BURP and 5th year 2nd Term for BArch. 
i) A student can register maximum 5 (five) theory courses from the backlog courses in addition to sessional/other sessional related backlog courses of all previous 1st Terms in any 1st Term or of all previous 2nd Terms in any 2nd Term with a total maximum credit hour limit of 24.0. In no situation, courses of both (1st & 2nd) Terms can be registered in any Term. 
ii) A student will not be allowed to register any withdrawal or incomplete course as self-study in any Term. He/She can register one or more withdrawal or incomplete courses from the courses as mentioned in 23.2(i). 
iii) He/She will follow the rules for registration of regular students as mentioned in Article 11.4.
23.3 Final Examination for the Backlog/Withdrawal/Incomplete courses Final examination for the backlog/withdrawal/incomplete courses should be conducted with the regular students in the same question paper and on the same date and time, if possible. Otherwise, final examination for the backlog/ withdrawal/incomplete courses will be arranged by the respective Head of the Department as soon as possible at an interval not more than the interval given for regular examination.


24. Minimum Earned Credits and GPA Requirements for Obtaining Degree 
The credit requirements for the award of Bachelor degree will be decided by the respective ACUG following Article No.7.5. The minimum CGPA requirement for obtaining a Bachelor degree is 2.20. A student may take additional courses with the consent of his/her Adviser in order to improve CGPA, but he/she may take a maximum of 15 (fifteen) such additional credits beyond respective credit requirements for the degree during his/her entire period of study.

25. Time Limit for Completion of the Degree 
A student must complete his studies within a maximum period of 7 (seven) consecutive academic years (fourteen regular Terms) for B.Sc. Eng./BURP and 8 (eight) consecutive years (sixteen regular terms) for BArch for completion of the degree.

26. Industrial/Professional Training Requirements 
Depending on each Department’s requirement a student may have to complete a prescribed number of days of industrial/professional training in addition to minimum credit and other requirements, to the satisfaction of the concerned Department.

27. Absence during Term 
A student should not be absent from quizzes, class tests, and spot tests etc. during the Term. Such absence will naturally lead to reduction in points/marks that count towards the final grade. Absence in Term final examination will result in ‘F’ grades. A student who has been absent for short periods, up to a maximum of 3 (three) weeks due to illness or participating in extra-curricular activities outside of the University (sent by the University authority) should approach to the course teacher(s) on the recommendation of his Adviser and Head of the Department for a make-up class tests, quizzes, spot tests, sessional classes or assignments immediately on returning to the classes. Such request should be supported by medical certificate from University Medical Officer or the relevant office order. The medical certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner and endorsed by University Medical Officer will also be acceptable only in those cases where the student has valid reason for his/her absence from the University. The course teacher will take necessary measures

28. Application for Graduation and Award of Degree
 A student who has fulfilled all the academic requirements for the degree will have to apply to the Controller of Examinations through his/her Adviser and Head of the Department for graduation. Degree will be awarded on completion of the minimum Credit and CGPA requirements subject to the approval of the Academic Council.

29. Grade Conversion in KUET
CGPA of any student may be converted into percentage of marks using following rules: 
            % of Marks = 79+80 × (CGPA - 3.75) for 3.75 ≤ CGPA ≤ 4.00 
                                                          and 
            % of Marks = 44+20 × (CGPA - 2.00) for 2.20 ≤ CGPA < 3.75
